Daml intro (#1717)
digital-asset/daml: docs/source/daml/intro/7_Composing.rst

.. Copyright (c) 2019 Digital Asset (Switzerland) GmbH and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

> 7 Composing Choices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7 Composing choices
```

===================

> It is time to put everything you have learnt so far together into a complete and secure DAML model for asset issuance, management, transfer, and trading, with capabilities similar to that presented in :doc:`/getting-started/quickstart`. In the process you will learn about a few more concepts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's time to put everything you've learnt so far together into a complete and secure DAML model for asset issuance, management, transfer, and trading. This application will have capabilities similar to the one in :doc:`/getting-started/quickstart`. In the process you will learn about a few more concepts:
```

> - DAML Projects, Packages and Modules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- DAML projects, packages and modules
```

- Composition of transactions

> - Observers and Stakeholders

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Observers and stakeholders
```

- DAML's execution model
- Privacy

The model in this section is not a single DAML file, but a DAML project consisting of several files that depend on each other.

> DAML Projects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DAML projects
```

-------------

> DAML is organized in packages and modules. DAML projects are specified using a ``daml.yaml`` file and compile into packages. DAML files within a project become DAML modules. You can start a new project with a skeleton structure using ``daml new project_name`` in the terminal.

Reviewer: I've clarified this but let me know if it's not actually correct, as the sense did change a little

```suggestion
DAML is organized in packages and modules. A DAML project is specified using a single ``daml.yaml`` file, and compiles into a package. Each DAML file within a project becomes a DAML module. You can start a new project with a skeleton structure using ``daml new project_name`` in the terminal.
```

Each DAML project has a main source file, which is the entry point for the compiler. A common pattern is to have a main file called ``LibraryModules.daml``, which simply lists all the other modules to include.

A minimal project would contain just two files: ``daml.yaml`` and ``daml/LibraryModules.daml``. Take a look at the ``daml.yaml`` for this project:

.. literalinclude:: daml/daml-intro-7/daml.yaml.template
  :language: yaml

> You can generally set ``name`` and ``version`` freely to describe your project. ``dependencies`` lists package dependencies. ``daml-prim`` should always be included. ``daml-stdlib`` gives access to the DAML standard library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can generally set ``name`` and ``version`` freely to describe your project. ``dependencies`` lists package dependencies: you should always include ``daml-prim``, and ``daml-stdlib`` gives access to the DAML standard library.
```

> You can compile a DAML project by running ``daml build`` from the project root directory. This creates a ``dar`` package in ``dist/project_name.dar``. A ``dar`` file is DAML's equivalent of a ``JAR`` file in Java. It's the artifact that gets deployed to a ledger to load the contract model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You compile a DAML project by running ``daml build`` from the project root directory. This creates a ``dar`` package in ``dist/project_name.dar``. A ``dar`` file is DAML's equivalent of a ``JAR`` file in Java: it's the artifact that gets deployed to a ledger to load the contract model.
```

> You can compile a DAML project by running ``daml build`` from the project root directory. This creates a ``dar`` package in ``dist/project_name.dar``. A ``dar`` file is DAML's equivalent of a ``JAR`` file in Java. It's the artifact that gets deployed to a ledger to load the contract model.

Reviewer: Bit confusing to have it called both a dar "file" and "package" - maybe feels more correct to say that a dar file is a package/DAML package? Not sure

> Project Structure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Project structure
```

-----------------

> This project contains an asset holding model for transferrable, fungible assets and a separate trade workflow. The templates are structured in three modules ``Intro.Asset``, ``Intro.Asset.Role``, and ``Intro.Asset.Trade``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This project contains an asset holding model for transferrable, fungible assets and a separate trade workflow. The templates are structured in three modules: ``Intro.Asset``, ``Intro.Asset.Role``, and ``Intro.Asset.Trade``.
```

In addition, there are tests in modules ``Test.Intro.Asset``, ``Test.Intro.Asset.Role``, and ``Test.Intro.Asset.Trade``.

All but the last ``.``-separated segment in module names correspond to paths, and the last one to a file name. The folder structure therefore looks like this:

.. code-block:: none

  .
  ├── daml
  │   ├── Intro
  │   │   ├── Asset
  │   │   │   ├── Role.daml
  │   │   │   └── Trade.daml
  │   │   └── Asset.daml
  │   ├── LibraryModules.daml
  │   └── Test
  │       └── Intro
  │           ├── Asset
  │           │   ├── Role.daml
  │           │   └── Trade.daml
  │           └── Asset.daml
  └── daml.yaml

Each file contains the DAML pragma and module header. For example, ``daml/Intro/Asset/Role.daml``:

.. literalinclude:: daml/daml-intro-7/daml/Intro/Asset/Role.daml
  :language: daml
  :start-after: -- PRAGMA_BEGIN
  :end-before: -- PRAGMA_END

> Modules can be imported in each other using the ``import`` keyword. The ``LibraryModules`` module imports all six modules:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can import one module into another using the ``import`` keyword. The ``LibraryModules`` module imports all six modules:
```

.. literalinclude:: daml/daml-intro-7/daml/LibraryModules.daml
  :language: daml
  :start-after: -- IMPORTS_BEGIN

> Imports always have to appear just below the module declaration. The ``()`` behind each ``import`` above is optional, and allows one to only import selected names. In this case it suppresses an "unused import" warning. ``LibraryModules`` is not actually using any of the imports in ``LibraryModules``. The ``()`` tells the compiler that this is intentional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Imports always have to appear just below the module declaration. The ``()`` behind each ``import`` above is optional, and lets you only import selected names.

In this case, it suppresses an "unused import" warning. ``LibraryModules`` is not actually using any of the imports in ``LibraryModules``. The ``()`` tells the compiler that this is intentional.
```

A more typical import statement is ``import Intro.Asset`` as found in ``Test.Intro.Asset``.

> Project Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Project overview
```

----------------

> The project both changes and additions compared to the ``Iou`` model presented in :doc:`6_Parties`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project both changes and adds to the ``Iou`` model presented in :doc:`6_Parties`:
```

  :language: daml
  :start-after: -- TEST_ISSUANCE_BEGIN
  :end-before: -- TEST_ISSUANCE_END

In the above, the ``test_issuance`` scenario in ``Test.Intro.Asset.Role`` uses the output of the ``setupRoles`` scenario in the same module.

The same line shows a new kind of pattern matching. Rather than writing ``setupResults <- setupRoles`` and then accessing the components of ``setupResults`` using ``_1``, ``_2``, etc., you can give them names. It's equivelent to writing

.. code-block:: daml

  setupResults <- setupRoles
  case setupResults of
    (alice, bob, bank, aha, ahb) -> ...

Just writing ``(alice, bob, bank, aha, ahb) <- setupRoles`` would also be legal, but ``setupResults`` is used in the return value of ``test_issuance`` so it makes sense to give it a name, too. The notation with ``@`` allows you to give both the whole value as well as its constituents names in one go.

.. _execution_model:

DAML's execution model
----------------------

DAML's execution model is fairly easy to understand, but has some important consequences. You can imagine the life of a transaction as follows:

1. A party submits a transaction. Remember, a transaction is just a list of actions.

> 2. The transaction is interpreted, meaning the ``Update`` corresponding to each action is evaluated in the context of the ledger to calculate all consequeces, including transitive ones (consequences of consequences, etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The transaction is interpreted, meaning the ``Update`` corresponding to each action is evaluated in the context of the ledger to calculate all consequeces, including transitive ones (consequences of consequences, etc).
```

3. The transaction is *blinded*, or *projected*, meaning the views that different parties have on the transaction are calculated.

> 4. The blinded views are distributed to the parties.

Reviewer: What does that mean? (I don't think you've touched on anything that would explain this so far)

Author: What does what mean? I say what "blinded" means in item 3.

> 5. The transaction is *validated* and *committed* based on the blinded views and a consensus protocol depending on the underlying infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. The transaction is *validated* based on the blinded views and a consensus protocol depending on the underlying infrastructure.
6. If validation succeeds, the transaction is *committed*.
```

2. Every party that sees an action sees its (transitive) consequences.

Item 2. is necessary to ensure that every party can independently verify the validity of every transaction they see.

A party has a stake in an action if

- they are a required authorizer of it
- they are a signatory of on the contract on which the action is performed
- they are an observer on the contract, and the action creates or archives it

What does that mean for the ``exercise tradeCid Trade_Settle`` action from ``test_trade``?

Alice is the signatory of ``tradeCid`` and Bob a required authorizer of the ``Trade_Settled`` action, so both of them see it. According to rule 2. above, that means they get to see everything in the transaction.

The consequences contain, next to some ``fetch`` actions, two ``exercise`` actions of the choice ``TransferApproval_Transfer``.

Each of the two involved ``TransferApproval`` contracts is signed by a different ``issuer``, which see the action on "their" contract. So the EUR_Bank sees the ``TransferApproval_Transfer`` action for the EUR ``Asset`` and the USD_Bank sees the ``TransferApproval_Transfer`` action for the USD ``Asset``.

> Some DAML ledgers, like the scenario runner and the Sandbox work on the principle of "data minimization", meaning nothing more than the above information is distributed. Ie the "projecion" of the overall transaction that gets distributed to EUR_Bank in step 4 of :ref:`execution_model` would consist only of the ``TransferApproval_Transfer`` and its consequences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some DAML ledgers, like the scenario runner and the Sandbox, work on the principle of "data minimization", meaning nothing more than the above information is distributed. That is, the "projection" of the overall transaction that gets distributed to EUR_Bank in step 4 of :ref:`execution_model` would consist only of the ``TransferApproval_Transfer`` and its consequences.
```
